### Background Info & Data Analysis
- The **Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL)** Program was a loan program that took loans from private lenders to students. As a result of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 no new FFEL Program loans were made beginning after July, 2010. This is reflected in the data with the **number of recipients and outstanding dollars decreasing each year after 2010.**

- The **Perkins Loans** Program is a low-interest federal student loan program for undergraduate and graduate students with exceptional financial need. Since these loans are based on how much money your own school can lend out any cuts in funding to schools will result in cuts to these loans. Based on the graphs the amount of **Perkins recipients increased from 2007-2009 when the United States had a financial crisis.** This crisis could lead to more students being in exceptional financial need and lead to more Perkins loans being handed out. There was another **decrease in Perkins Loans in the years past 2015.** This could be due to the effect of States not adjusting their appropriations to higher education after the financial crisis.
This combined with the increase of students attending Universities leads to less funding per student. According to [cbpp.org](www.cbpp.org), **funding per full-time-enrolled student in 2015 is down 18.03% from 2007.**

- **Direct Loans** are federal student loans given by the Department of Education. With the decrease in other types of loans, these loans need to make up the difference. Over the past ten years the amount of outstanding money of these loans has increased by approximately 9.3x and the number of recipients has increased by about 4.6x. This shows that the government is having to give out twice the amount of loans for each person in 2017 comparatively to 2007. **The greatest increase in the amount of loans given out was between 2010 and 2012 where the amount of loans increased 118% and the number of recipients grew by 158% and the amount of loans per person increased by 40%**
